# The-Galapagos-Project

Many of the important observations that led Charles Darwin to develop the theory of evolution were made in the Galápagos archipelago, particularly in the study of the small birds, called finches, that inhabit them. The islands are ideal for studying evolution because they are isolated so they do not have complicated effects from interactions with other species including humans. Furthermore, some of them are small, so entire populations can be monitored on a given island. Every year since 1973, Peter and Rosemary Grant of Princeton University have been spending several months of the year on the tiny volcanic cinder cone island of Daphne Major in the Galápagos. This island has two dominant ground finch species, Geospiza fortis and Geospiza scandens. The Grants have monitored them every year, tagging them, making physiological measurements, taking samples for genetic sequencing, and more. In 2014, they published a book entitled 40 Years of Evolution: Darwin's Finches on Daphne Major Island. They generously placed all of their data on the Dryad data repository making it free for anyone to use. The data set is impressive and a great set for using data science and statistical inference to learn about evolution. We will work with the Grants' measurements of beak depth. We'll consider different aspects of the beak geometry, including how it varies over time, from species to species, and from parents to offspring. 

The datasets used in this project are freely available in <em>Kaggle</em>
